History of computers
The history of computers is deeply rooted in the desire
by mankind to compute basic mathematical functions.
These and other tasks remain the core functions of
computers even today.
The Abacus Calculator
Initial data manipulation was done using fingers,
sticks, and stones. The increase in population and the
need to manipulate even bigger tasks meant that a
switch to more advanced systems was needed.
The Chinese used the abacus tables and strings during
the second century BC. It was the ultimate counting
machine at the time.
Z3
The first digital and programmable computer was
manufactured in 1941. It was called the Z3 and was
designed by Konrad Zuse.
The ENIAC
The ENIAC (Electronic Numeric Integrator and
Computer) was also a Turing Complete machine. It
was used by the US Army Ballistic Research Lab to
study the feasibility of thermonuclear weaponry, the
firing of ballistic artillery, and engine thermal ignition. It
was also used for weather predictions.
The Microprocessor Generation
The invention of the personal computer was made
possible by two technical innovations in the field of
microelectronics.In 1959, the integrated circuit (IC)
was developed.In 1971, the microprocessor wasunveiled to the computing world.In 1971, a team of
engineers working for Intel Corporation (Ted Hoff,
Federico Faggin, and Stan Mazor) invented the
microprocessor, calling it the Intel 4004.
The Altair 8800 and Birth of Microsoft
In 1975, a company called Micro Instrumentation
Telemetry Systems (MITS) produced the first
desktop-size system specifically for personal use.
It was called the Altair 8800. This device was not
necessarily the best example of a personal computer
since interaction with it was limited to very high levels
of sophistication.A year later, in 1975, Gates and Allen
formed a software company called Microsoft and they
began writing software for new computers.
Apple II and the Birth of Apple Computer
In 1976, Steve Jobs and Stephen Wozniak designed
a homemade wooden computer with an integrated
microprocessor. They named it the Apple I. It was
targeted at a growing market of computer enthusiasts.
TRS-80 and Computer Storage
RadioShack, formerly known as Tandy Corporation,
introduced the TRS-80 on August 3, 1977.The
company soon became one of the leading PC sellers. It
dominated the field because of two attractive features
it included in its computers: a keyboard and a cathode
ray display terminal (CRT) monitor.The TRS-80 was
also popular because it could be programmed and the
user was able to store data in cassette tapes.
The IBM PC
The first truly successful personal computer was theIBM PC, which was launched in 1981. What made this
machine special and different from Apple II and other
models was the simple fact that it was built from a
combination of off-the-shelf parts. It came complete
with a separate monitor, keyboard, and system unit.
Smartphones and Tablets
Computers have gone through fundamental changes
in both speed and size in a period shorter than 70
years.When personal computers finally arrived, they
offered speed without taking up an entire room.The
reign of desktops and laptops was at its peak during
the start of the 21st century. From the highest office
in Washington to the smallest hut in an African
village, computers had become commonplace.Then
came the mobile phone, which was immediately
followed by the tablet computer. This was also the
period where the internet was becoming a part of
daily life across the globe.
By-Rashandeep Singh
CO18340
Last modified: 9:32 pm
